
# Extend

The `@extend` directive has to be one of the features that made Sass so popular a couple of years ago. As a reminder, it makes it possible to tell Sass to style an element A exactly as though it also matched selector B. Needless to say this can end up being a valuable ally when writing modular CSS.

However I feel like I must warn you against this feature. As clever as it is, `@extend` still is a tricky concept that might do more harm than good, especially when poorly used. The thing is, when extending a selector, you have little to no way to answer these questions without having an in-depth knowledge of the whole codebase:

* where is my current selector going to be appended?
* am I likely to be causing undesired side-effects?
* how large is the CSS generated by this single extend?

For all you know, the result could range from doing nothing to causing disastrous side-effects. Because of this, my first advice would be to avoid the `@extend` directive altogether. It might sound brutal, but at the end of the day it can save you some headaches and troubles.

That being said, you know the saying:

> Never say never.<br>
> &mdash; Apparently, [not Beyonce](https://github.com/HugoGiraudel/sass-guidelines/issues/31#issuecomment-69112419).

There are scenarios where extending selectors might be helpful and worthwhile. Yet, always keep in mind those rules so you don’t get yourself into trouble:

* Use extend from within a module, not across different modules.
* Use extend on placeholders exclusively, not on actual selectors.
* Make sure the placeholder you extend is present as little as possible in the stylesheet.

If you are going to use extend, let me also remind you that it does not play well with `@media` blocks. As you may know, Sass is unable to extend an outer selector from within a media query. When doing so, the compiler simply crashes, telling you that you cannot do such a thing. Not great. Especially since media queries are almost all we do know.

<div class="code-block">
  <div class="code-block__wrapper" data-syntax="scss">
{% highlight scss %}
.foo {
  content: 'foo';
}

@media print {
  .bar {
    // This doesn't work. Worse: it crashes.
    @extend .foo;
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}
  </div>
  <div class="code-block__wrapper" data-syntax="sass">
{% highlight sass %}
.foo
  content: 'foo'

@media print
  .bar
    // This doesn't work. Worse: it crashes.
    @extend .foo
{% endhighlight %}
  </div>
</div>

> You may not @extend an outer selector from within @media.<br>
> You may only @extend selectors within the same directive.

<div class="note">
  <p>It is often said that <code>@extend</code> helps with the file size since it combines selectors rather than duplicated properties. That is true, however the difference is negligible once <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip">Gzip</a> has done its compression.</p>
  <p>That being said, if you cannot use Gzip (or any equivalent) then switching to a <code>@extend</code> approach might not be that bad as long as you know what you are doing.</p>
</div>

To sum up, I would **advise against using the `@extend` directive**, unless under some specific circumstances, but I would not go as far as to forbid it.



### Further reading

* [What Nobody Told you About Sass Extend](http://www.sitepoint.com/sass-extend-nobody-told-you/)
* [Why You Should Avoid Extend](http://www.sitepoint.com/avoid-sass-extend/)
* [Don't Over Extend Yourself](http://pressupinc.com/blog/2014/11/dont-overextend-yourself-in-sass/)
* [When to Use Extend; When to Use a Mixin](http://csswizardry.com/2014/11/when-to-use-extend-when-to-use-a-mixin/)
